scientists measure black holes by their
schwarzschild radius
the distance from where its gravity
starts and the hole itself
our smallest black hole has a seven mile
radius
[Music]
number two is just eight miles little
black holes like this
can only be spotted when they eat the
material of passing stars
here we have a huge red star ui scooty
four quadrillion earths could fit into
it but a black hole
its radius would be around 16 miles
the 404 cygni is a little bigger at 17
miles
it whizzes around a nearby giant star
every six days slowly consuming its
gases
beetlejuice's black hole would be 21
miles when this star goes supernova
it will be bright enough to see during
the day and cast
shadows on earth at night
now for antares at 24 miles this star is
700 times bigger than the sun
but a million times less dense
cygnus x1 27 miles super dense stellar
black holes can squeeze several times
the mass of the sun
into a city-sized area
m33 x7 29 miles
one day the star close to this black
hole will collapse to create
a double black hole system
here we have a real big star it's 2 000
times bigger than the sun
but its black hole would be way smaller
than the grand canyon
at just 31 miles in radius
[Music]
mu cephei may soon become a black hole
with a 35 mile radius
it's surrounded by a huge layer of dust
and water vapor
rigel burns through its hydrogen fuel
thousands of times faster than our sun
and may soon go supernova its black hole
radius would be
39 miles now back to a real one
it's 578 miles black holes are so good
at producing energy
that some scientists want to power
spaceships with them
m82 x1 has a radius of 808 miles
no one is certain this is a black hole
but it's far brighter than any star
getting larger here at over 2 000 miles
the view from this one would be amazing
it's surrounded by a cluster of huge
very hot stars
ngc 1313 x1 is 9
000 miles you don't get sucked into a
black hole
objects fall into them
a leap forward with hlx1 which is 37
000 miles there could be up to a billion
black holes in the milky way
ic 432 is our first supermassive black
hole
at 932 000 miles
ones like this sit in the center of most
galaxies and physically hold them
together in space
circennis at 2.3 million miles throws
superheated gas in
every direction kind of like me the gas
cascades back into it like an enormous
cosmic fountain
messier 32 6 million miles
black holes slowly lose their mass into
space until they evaporate
sagittarius a is the milky way's local
supermassive black hole
it's 7.5 million miles in radius big
enough to fit nearly 170 jupiters across
its diameter
although it has a radius of 9.3 million
miles messier 61
shares its galaxy's core with a huge and
very dense cluster of stars
ngc 3783 is 16 million miles
black holes spin around at almost the
speed of light
next up is an 18 million miles wide
black hole
if two galaxies collide two supermassive
black holes might end up sharing the
galactic core
together this black hole
is 22 million miles now a huge ring of
dust
circles billions of miles from its edge
ncg 3227 26 million miles
if you fell into a black hole you would
literally be stretched out like a strand
of spaghetti
and your friends could call you
fettuccine
our next one is 39 million miles this
enormous black hole dominates a galaxy
that's 500 times smaller than the milky
way
messier 108 stretches to 44 million
miles
black hole sometimes spit out
planet-sized objects
at 20 million miles per hour markarian
is 48 million miles big black holes can
produce enough material to create new
stars
which form outside their parent galaxy
at 70 million miles this mysterious
black hole
has begun to grow more slowly over the
last 25 000 years
messier 96 88 million miles
the laws of physics break down inside
black holes
objects falling into them seem to slow
down as they get closer
centaurus a is 101 million miles
its much smaller cousins called micro
black holes
exist for only one octillionth of a
nanosecond
this next one is 128 million miles in
radius
black holes in neighboring galaxies can
eject gas in a synchronized way
farol 9 147 million miles
a galactic black hole can switch off
star formation in a galaxy
i'm too lazy to pronounce its name black
hole
165 million miles this galaxy contains
three supermassive black holes at its
center
with this next one we've reached 238
million miles
once caught by a black hole you can
never escape
but you could fire a rocket to increase
the length of your fall
whatever that means the andromeda
galaxy's black hole is 312 million miles
it will impact the milky way in about
four and a half billion years
so keep an eye out for that after
andromeda we have this one
at 404 million miles it takes less than
a billion years for a supermassive black
hole to form
but the smallest ones can form in just a
few seconds
messier 59 is nearly 500 million miles
this one rotates in the opposite
direction to its galaxy
and appears to be asleep
here we have a radius of 621 million
miles
black holes can only be detected
indirectly from the superheated material
circling around them the black hole in
ngc
4261 feeds on a disc of dust that's 800
light years wide
the hole itself is 746 million miles in
radius
ngc blah blah blah 932 million miles
even the biggest black holes aren't
large enough to eat the entire galaxy
around them
that's a good thing with messier 49
we hit the one billion mile mark
no one really knows if black holes help
to create galaxies
or the other way around
ngc 1275 one and a half
billion miles black holes have been
discovered more than
13 billion light years from earth
our next one is 1.8 billion miles it
would take much
longer than the current age of the
universe for most black holes to
evaporate
at 2.1 billion miles this one has a
diameter that's 11 times
larger than the orbit of neptune
messier 84 2.7 billion miles
stars and gas circulate this black hole
at 880
000 miles per hour with a 3.7 billion
mile radius
this one is so big that it begins to
heat up gas falling into it at a
distance of 700 light years
cygnus a 4.6 billion miles
scientists recently observed this one
firing ricocheting jets of energy at
nearby gas clouds
how rude the seven and a half
billion mile hercules a not b
is more than a thousand times heavier
than the milky way's
biggest black hole messier 60
8.3 billion miles the largest black
holes can grow faster than their
galaxies
and may tear them apart and that's the
thanks you get
m87 is the first and only black hole
we've ever taken a photo
of you're staring at a radius of 11.8
billion miles
ngc something 13.7 billion miles
objects that enter black holes can never
be recovered by the universe
now we're up to 17.8 billion miles with
ngc 3842 particles may travel
forwards in time when they enter a black
hole
here comes some real monsters this black
hole is 18.6 billion miles
the light from it has traveled across
the entire universe
for nearly 11 billion years
and on a few more billion and we're up
to 22 billion miles
black holes may be responsible for
creating our universe
as well as other ones our next giant is
30.4 billion miles some experts think
there are traces of black holes
that existed before the universe itself
oj287 brings us to 33 billion miles
black holes are so heavy that they
literally make space around them
curved now there are just too many ngcs
on this list
and this one is 36.6 billion miles
ultra massive black holes like this
appear in huge clusters of galaxies
and swallow incredible amounts of hot
gas
it's all about gas now we're still not
done
this black hole is 55 billion miles in
radius
so its diameter is 14 times bigger than
pluto's orbit
but its big brother is 62 billion miles
a black hole with a mass of two pounds
would take a decillion years to swallow
the earth
our next ultra massive one is 73 billion
miles it would take more than one
thousand years traveling at light speed
to reach the nearest black hole
holmberg 15a 88 billion miles
as you approach a black hole the space
around you moves
faster than light ton 618
possibly the biggest ever black hole is
121 billion miles in radius
and shines as bright as 140 trillion
suns
wrap your head around that one as the
biggest galaxy in the known universe
ic 1101 probably has the largest black
hole as well
at around 128 billion miles